The Five Dysfunctions of a Team Notes
Introduction
	The Author Patrick Lencioni argues in the introduction that teamwork is what is 
	needed in order for a team, organization, or business to survive and thrive. 
	However, humans are flawed in our understanding, but that doesn’t mean that teamwork 
	is doomed to the same type of fate. Only the group that overcomes their difficulties 
	will in return be successful because of it. This book is set in a fictional organization 
	so that the reader is able to relate to the characters and the struggles that they will 
	face as well as offer concrete applications of what the book offers. There is even
	 material to apply to our own organization or team and a team assessment/tools to 
	 overcome any issues as well.

The Fable 
1.	Luck
		Kathryn Peterson was elected by someone who was a chairman of the board for a company 
		called, DecisionTech, Inc., to become the CEO. After just two years of being in the 
		position, she helped the company become incredibly well known in Silicon Valley.
2.	Part One: Underachievement 
	♣	Backstory
		DecisionTech is part of the Silicon Valley with the most capable people for the job, 
		an incredible business plan, and many young investors.  However, this was two years 
		ago when they first started. The company began to fall on hard times with deadlines 
		being missed, disappointments from management, and key employees left the company. 
		Jeff Shanley, DecisionTech’s thirty-seven-year-old CEO was asked to step down. The 
		150 employees liked him on a personal level, however they could all agree that he 
		didn’t have the leaderships qualities to move the company. All and all, there was 
		no sense of “community” at DecisionTech. Word spread that DecisionTech was a very 
		unpleasant place to work in Silicon Valley. Three weeks later was when Kathryn was 
		hired to the company.
	♣	Kathryn
		The executives knew there were many problems with the Kathryn: she was fifty-seven-years-old,
		 had no high-tech experience, and her career path mostly being in operational roles for 
		 low-tech companies. She didn’t seem to fit. She was in the military, had a family, went to 
		 school for business, and retired at age fifty-four. On paper, Kathryn didn’t seem like a good 
		 fit for the company, however the Chairman insisted that the board would give her a try. Even 
		 with all of the reasons not to interview her, the board decided that DecisionTech was in a 
		 dire situation. So they decided to give her a chance.
	♣	Rationale 
		The Chairman has known Kathryn for some time on a personal level. They met when Kathryn’s husband 
		coached the Chairman’s son in high school, where they got to know each other. The Chairman read up 
		on Kathryn and her successful ventures in Bar Area’s automobile manufacturing plant where she rose 
		up quickly with little training. The Chairman offered the position to Kathryn on the sole fact that 
		“she had an amazing gift for building teams.”
	♣	Grumblings
		The DecisionTech executives had many doubts about Kathryn; especially after the first two weeks of 
		her working the job. After her first day and interviews with her direct reports, Kathryn spent most 
		of her time walking the halls, chatting with the staff, and attending meetings. She even asked Jeff 
		Shanley, the previous CEO, to continue leading the weekly executive staff meetings, where she only 
		took notes at. Kathryn requested that the executives would take a two-day retreat in the Napa Valley, 
		which they were somewhat reluctant about. They suggested a topic of discussion for the two-day retreat 
		but Kathryn refused, saying that she had her own agenda.
	♣	Observations
		From the two weeks of working at DecisionTech Kathryn knew that this was going to be a challenge to fix 
		he company and she didn’t want to let the Chairman down. But she wasn’t going to let a bunch of yuppies 
		make her feel pressured. She believed that her lack in software experience would help her compared to all 
		of her colleagues. Rather her experience in leadership would be sufficient enough to get DecisionTech out 
		of the mess that they are in. 
	♣	The Staff
	The staff was not referred to as a team, and within meetings no one seemed to argue or resulting in an undeniable 
	tension.
		Jeff – Former CEO, Business Development  
	⎯	Contributed a lot to get the company’s initial money and current executives.
	⎯	Meetings he created always followed into routine – People hated them
	⎯	Nothing got done during his meetings
	⎯	Likes Kathryn for taking his old responsibilities  
		Mikey – Marketing 
	⎯	“Brand Building Genius” – Very well sought after
	⎯	Introverted | Doesn’t understand how she comes across to others
	⎯	A spectator that doesn’t like to get her hands dirty 
		Martin – Chief Technologist
	⎯	Founder/inventor of the company
	⎯	Was a real leader for the company when it first started 
	⎯	Very informed on tech companies and tech in general
	⎯	Doesn’t participate & Arrogant – On his computer a lot 
		JR – Sales 
	⎯	Excellent sales person 
	⎯	Never follows through with any requests
	⎯	Maintains a somewhat good track record with his peers 
		Carlos – Customer Support
	⎯	Very quiet and reserved but modest
	⎯	Incredibly trustworthy and someone that the staff can lean on
	⎯	Willingness to take on responsibilities
		Jan – Chief Financial Officer
	⎯	Detail oriented
	⎯	Took pride in the company
		Nick – Chief Operating Officer 
	⎯	Very ill-defined job 
	⎯	Chief operator as well as COO
	⎯	Kind of a jerk
	
3.	Part Two: Lighting The Fire
	♣	First Test
		Martin, the Chief Technologist sent a memo to the executive staff that him and JR will meet up with ASA
		Manufacturing for reviewing their product. Completely ignoring Kathryn’s first half of the retreat for 
		the team. Kathryn went and spoke with Martin directly and told him that there aren’t any excuses for 
		missing the team retreat. After telling him that she said that the CEO from ASA Manufacturing owes her a 
		favor, so if Martin needed help rescheduling the appointment she could help. She left the room leaving Martin.
	♣	End Run
		Jeff decided to take Kathryn out to discuss the interaction between Martin and her, but through the conversation 
		Kathryn was able to persuade him that the internals of the company are more important. She was hired to fix the 
		problem and that is what she is going to do, while telling Jeff in a caring but strong manner. They engaged in 
		small talk in small talk then headed back to the office.
	♣	Drawing The Line
		The chairman contacted Kathryn about the “Martin incident” after work and told her that she should get to know her 
		staff prior to demanding things from them. Kathryn then explained to the chairman that she has been watching the 
		staff for two weeks, noticed that there is no sense of community, and is trying to put the pieces to together. 
		Although the chairman didn’t completely understand, he would be willing to give her a chance, sense this is what 
		she is good at doing. 
	♣	Napa
		Napa Valley would be the local that executive staff would have they’re retreat, in a small inn located in the town 
		of Yountville. The meeting started at 9:00 A.M., with everyone checked in and accounted for besides Martin. Almost 
		panicking as the time got closer and closer to 9, Martin eventually walked in and Kathryn became calm again. 
	♣	The Speech
		Kathryn began telling the staff how the company was successful in many aspects, but lacking the most in a major 
		one: becoming a team. The next two days of the retreat will determine who will really want to be a part of a team. 
		The bottom line for this retreat and the next few months is to make the company succeed, that’s it. Kathryn drew up 
		a triangle with four horizontal lines, telling the team that there are 5 dysfunctions of a team. One: absence of trust
		 – “teams are not afraid to admit their mistakes, their weakness, and their concerns without fear of reprisal”. This is
		  where the team will start first.
	♣	Pushing Back
		Jan, the chief financial adviser, asked Jan if the reason she thinks that the staff doesn’t trust each other is because 
		Kathryn doesn’t know them very well. However, Kathryn suggests that one of the reasons that the team is dysfunctional 
		is because there isn’t enough debate at the meetings. Everyone goes about their thing without being invested. Mikey 
		suggested the reasoning that there isn’t enough discussion is because “people are too busy to have lengthy debates”. 
		Most people disagreed which lead Kathryn to find that if the staff doesn’t agree on most things, and don’t seem to be 
		willing to admit concerns, then that is a problem. The discussion came to a close by the sounds of Martin’s typing 
		became louder. 
	♣	Entering The Danger
		Kathryn asked Martin what he was working on, to which he responded that he was taking notes for the meeting. Kathryn 
		then told the group that there will be group rules for the group when it comes to meetings that she wants to enforce:
		be present and participate. Martin responded in saying, “what if the conversation isn’t relevant to everyone?” To
		which Kathryn responded that is there is a more one-on-one discussion between two people, then they both should be 
		able to speak their minds. She then told Martin that computers won’t be allowed in meetings from now on, which then 
		Mikey came to Martin’s said saying that this is standard in a high tech company. Kathryn responded with it being more 
		of a behavioral issue rather than a technological one. 
	♣	Getting Naked
		Kathryn officially starts the meeting with an exercise called, “personal histories”. Everyone answers five nonintrusive 
		personal questions relating to their backgrounds: hometown, number of kids, childhood hobbies, any challenges growing up, 
		etc. Each of them giving their own personal stories about themselves, even Kathryn. This discussion was able to calm the 
		group down and feel more relaxed, but it wouldn’t last very long…
	♣	Going Deeper
		Spending time reviewing their Myers-Briggs Type indicators, the group then had to come to terms with not only the positive 
		aspects of their personalities but as well as their shortcomings as well. Kathryn decided that the team should have a break 
		and reconvene afterwards. After the break, with the team all loosened up, Kathryn noticed that as the team was teasing each 
		other about their traits no one was teasing Mikey and she wasn’t teasing anyone. That was until she opened herself up to 
		criticism. Nick said that the group’s traits were accurate, which then caused Mikey to roll her eyes at him. Nick called her 
		out on it causing Mikey to get defensive and dislike the trip as a whole. The team eventually were able to laugh off the tense 
		conversation by a joke Nick made, but the chapter ended with Mikey disinterested in business talk and shows how she doesn’t 
		trust her team very much.
	♣	Poolside
		The night was winding down to an end and everyone bed besides Jan and Nick. As Mikey was heading her way to her room near 
		the poolside, Kathryn talked to her one-on-one to see if she was okay. Mikey wasn’t having it and told Kathryn that no one 
		here knows how to run a business and she wasn’t going to talk tomorrow. Mikey ended the conversation with a sarcastic “oh, 
		I will” when Kathryn told her to get some good night sleep. 
	♣	Rebound
		The next day Mikey seemed much more enthusiastic when the meeting started in the morning. Kathryn said a similar speech as 
		the previous day about where the company wants to go, but won’t get there if the team isn’t functional. Reviewing the material 
		yesterday some of the team members were losing interest, until Kathryn intervened and basically said that the team won’t get 
		better if we don’t put the time into fixing it. After completing their reviews on their interpersonal styles, Kathryn decided
		to start a new exercise that will take a closer look on Mikey and the rest of the team.
	♣	Awareness
		The base of the team dysfunctional pyramid is absence of trust and the only way to overcome it is to be able to be vulnerable 
		with the issues you do have. Kathryn asks the group for each team member to go around and tell the group their single biggest 
		strength and weakness. Everyone went around and told the group their strength and weakness. Nick, Jan, and Jeff all went and 
		did an amazing job at being vulnerable to the group, unlike Mikey who was very reserved with her answer. 
	♣	Ego
	♣	Goals
	♣	Deep Tissue
	♣	Attack
	♣	Exhibition
	♣	Film Noir
	♣	Application
	4.	Part Three: Heavy Lifting 
	♣	One-Site
	♣	Fireworks
	♣	Leaks
	♣	Off-Site Number Two
	♣	Plowing On
	♣	Accountability
	♣	Individual Contributor
	♣	The Talk
	♣	Last Stand
	♣	Flack
	♣	Heavy Lifting
	♣	Rally
5.	Part Four: Traction
	♣	Harvest
	♣	Gut Check
	♣	The March

The Model
1.	An Overview of the Model
2.	Team Assessment 
3.	Understanding and Overcoming
The Five Dysfunctions 